All right.
Let's talk a little bit about the starter files
that you need to get up and running
in the tooling that you need.
So, first of all, when you log into your course manager,
you'll see there's a button under the course
that you are taking right now.
It's called Master Gatsby.
There should be a starter files and step solutions.
That's going to link you off to the GitHub
and on the GitHub, you're gonna have a directory
full of couple more directories.
So we'll have the finished files.
That's the sort of the end thing.
If you ever want to check out how it works at the very end,
we'll have a starter files,
which is what we actually going to be working with
right now.
And then there'll be a third folder,
which has step solutions.
And inside of that, you're gonna see folders
that correspond with the video number.
And if you ever want to be able to grab copy paste,
reference the code that we write in a video,
you can grab it from there.
So, first of all, before we even get into that,
you need a few things downloaded, installed.
You need the latest version of Node.js, all of the tooling,
as well as the backend server that we're gonna be doing
that all runs on Node.js.
So go to Node.js.org, click through to downloads,
and you can grab the latest version of node.
It doesn't really matter if the version is greater
than what you're seeing on the screen right here,
they released a new version all the time.
So even if it's 25,
don't sweat that you can just go ahead and grab
the latest version.
If there are any incompatibilities with the course,
I'll make sure to update the starter files
or the video to reflect that.
So go ahead, grab the installer for whichever OS
you currently are on.
There's LTS and current, I recommend you grab current.
That's always the most up to date.
If you aren't sure if you have Node.js installed or not,
go ahead and grab a terminal application.
And I'm gonna assume that you know what a terminal is.
We don't use it all that much in here,
but we do use it to start and close our things.
I'm using one called hyper, which is really good.
There's also, iTerm2, there's one built into windows.
There's one built into OS X, it's under utilities folder.
There's one in Linux.
If you know, if you're using Linux,
you know that there's a terminal in it.
So go ahead and grab those.
If yours looks a little bit different than mine,
that's totally fine.
If you go to WesBos.Com/Uses,
there's a link to all the themes and tools and everything
I use to get it, to look exactly like this.
Next we need a code editor, I will be using VS Code.
And you're welcome to use any code editor that you want,
or however, all of the kind of tips and tricks
that I have throughout this course,
will be, I think a lot of them are specific to VS Code.
So that's somewhat important.
When you install VS Code and you open it on app.
One thing I want you to do is to open up your command power
and you can do that by hitting command shift P,
and then just typing install.
And you're gonna see this something right here
is Shell Command install, code command in path.
And then what that will do is when you go to your terminal,
you're gonna be able to open up a folder
or anything like that,
just by typing the code and then the name of the file
or the folder that you want.
So if you type code --version,
and it gives you some sort of number, then that's great.
I mean, that has successfully installed.
You don't absolutely need that for this course,
but it's a handy little helper.
So let's talk about the starter files now.
So we'll go over to the GitHub here.
You can go ahead and clone them to your own, Git-repo,
or just go ahead and download the zip that we have there.
And once you've opened up the zip, you'll see,
have you ever starter files,
inside there we have two different folders.
Now this course is gonna have a front end Gatsby,
and it's going to have a backend, which is sanity.
And I always like to keep my front end and my backend
totally separate because they have their own dependencies.
They have their own settings.
They deploy to different places.
So keeping them in their own folder keeps it nice and clean
and separate.
And I even like to go one step further and keep them open
and separate editor tabs, which is pretty cool.
So go ahead and go into your starter files
and grab the sanity and the Gatsby folders.
And you can either rename the starter files directory
to something like working or Slick's Slices
is the app that we're going to be building.
Or I like to just take it out of here entirely
and then paste it into,
I've got a folder in the root of my computer here
called Master Gatsby.
And I've got both of those in there.
Next up.
We want to open up our terminal and we want to go
to the Master Gatsby folder.
So I am going to type CD till master Gatsby.
I'm gonna assume you know how to get to specific folders
in your terminal.
If you are unfamiliar with that, you can type CD space.
And then you can just take the folder that you want
and drag and drop that into your editor.
And that will auto complete where that folder actually is
in your editor.
So we want to go in one tab, go into the Gatsby folder,
and then another tab we want to go into the sanity folder.
So let's go into Gatsby here, CD space Gatsby,
and then I'm going to open up another tab
in my terminal here,
go into my master Gatsby folder
and then into my sanity folder.
Now both of these projects have
what are called dependencies,
things that are needed for them to run, things like Gatsby,
core react, bunch of tooling to get it up and running.
So what we need to do to install that
it's just type npm install,
and then go over to the sanity tab and type npm install.
And we'll just give that a second to go off to the internet
and to download all of the dependencies that we need
for this thing to run.
So once it's done finished,
you might be a little bit scared at this point
'cause node and NPM just puke a whole bunch of stuff,
you get this like,
so link module, core JS, not sure what that is.
And then you get these, these people asking you for money.
Then you get these probably seven or thousand warnings,
usually more than one and warnings that mean nothing,
which is good.
And then you also will see that any,
if there's any security vulnerabilities
and you'll most likely see security vulnerabilities
and don't freak out because I keep an eye on them.
But even if like sometimes I go to projects
that are a week older
and there's 7,000 security vulnerabilities.
Don't freak out because I will keep those up to date,
but also almost never are they actually vulnerabilities
that make their way into the code that you're writing.
So keep the versions of everything that we have in here
locked to what I have in the Git-repo.
Because if you were to update to an incompatible version
with this course, you're gonna have a bad time.
So I will keep the versions in the package this one
locked to the versions that we need.
In this case look, there's zero here,
but I'm sure by the time I wake up tomorrow morning,
there'll be a whole bunch.
Look at it.
There's a bunch of stuff in here.
Next we need to do is install a little bit of global tooling
via NPM.
And it's gonna clear this out with command K.
And the two things that we need are the Gatsby CLI
and the sanity CLI.
So that we can install those globally by typing.
If you're on a Mac,
usually have to type sudo and then type
npm install Gatsby-CLI @sanity/CLI -G,
and that will install them globally on your computer.
Go ahead and hit enter.
It might ask you for your password
and then it will spew a whole bunch of more stuff
into your terminal and eventually be fixed.
Mine just finished here and you can see it.
It actually didn't work.
I get an error warnings are usually fine,
errors or means something went wrong.
It's cause I already have them installed,
but you can test if you have them installed properly
by just typing Gatsby --version, and sanity --version.
And that will show you if you have something installed,
we'll go into what those are and when we need them.
But that's some of the tooling that we need.
Finally, we need to talk about ESLint and Prettier.
So a lot of the times I'm gonna be writing some code
and I'm gonna hit save.
And it's gonna magically sort of just jump,
it's going to get formatted nicely,
quotes will be changed, unneeded spaces.
Let we'll turn to cons if it's necessary.
A lot of those little quick fixes when I hit save,
those are happening because of two, ESLint,
as well as Prettier.
Prettier generally focuses on formatting
and ESLint focuses on code quality or possible issues
that might pop up
and we'll see plenty of plenty of issues like that
pop up.
But I want to just to show you how to get them,
how to get it working so that when I hit save
yours will likely do the same thing.
And this is totally optional.
You may already have be opinionated about your setup.
So feel free to just end this video now
and go on to the next one.
So what we want to do is we want to open both
the Gatsby folder and the sanity folder in VS Code.
And I want to use my own VS Code for each of them.
So if you just type code space dot on Gatsby,
and if you typed code space dot on sanity,
you'll see that they're gonna open up in VS Code
and you'll see that, Ooh,
they have their own nice little colors here.
And I've done that to separate the difference
between front end, yellow and backend, which is pink.
You can change the colors if you want in your settings
based on, file right here.
But I recommend keeping them the same as to what I have
in here.
Now, when you open that on up,
you probably will see something
in the bottom right hand corner
that says install recommended packages.
So there's two packages that I recommend for you.
If you don't see it,
you can open up your extensions in VS Code
and just type @recommended.
And that's going to tell you, workspace recommended
ESLint and Cobalt2.
So ESLint is the plugin hat's gonna actually fix our code
for us.
And it uses Prettier under the hood.
And Cobalt2 is a theme I use,
you don't have to install this
because that's the theme that I use.
If you're into it, then you can install it.
I just put that in there.
Cause a lot of people want to get the same theme.
It looks the same when you're coding as to
what's on my screen.
But we need to install the ESLint,
go ahead and install that.
And then quit VS Code entirely.
Don't just close the window, but go to the icon and quit it.
You're not, you don't necessarily have to,
but in my experience it never works
without somebody totally quitting it and starting it
right on up.
Then when you open it up again
and you open up any JavaScript file.
So we don't have any JavaScript files yet,
but maybe if you open,
make a new file called delete me .js,
and you do something like let age or no,
let's just do this.
Age = 100.
And if you hover over top of that,
it's going to say like age is not defined
and it's missing a semi-colon, right?
So watch when I hit save,
you'll see that it auto fixed that
and this one can't get auto fix.
So if I put a constant front of that, it gets fixed.
So there's a lot of like weird things
where you say like const names = 'Wes'.
And to give it a save.
I like to use single quotes instead of double quotes.
So when I hit save and I've accidentally used double quotes,
it will just change them over.
You see that?
I put some extra spaces in there.
That's unnecessary.
I hit save.
It, takes them out of there.
That is huge.
If you're a beginner programmer,
I really suggest that you use this because it's really easy.
And you can certainly,
if you're interested on how to tweak it, Wes,
I don't like semi-colons, I like double quotes.
I don't like all of them.
Just search, no sweat ESLint.
There we go.
No sweat ESLint and Ooh,
no sweat music video.
That seems cool.
Don't watch.
Watch that after, but search for the
ESLint Prettier VS Code, perfect setup,
or go to the GitHub, ESLint config Wes Bos.
And you'll see both my settings
as well as how to override them.
If you don't like a specific setting,
that's the most I'll go into that in this thing.
Cause I've talked about it many times over
and you can watch that video if you're interested.
So I'm going to delete that file.
Other than that,
you don't need to do that for every both of them.
You notice I did it in sanity here
and if you go over to Gatsby, it will work in Gatsby,
that's because we've,
I've set up the ESLint package to work
in both Gatsby and sanity.
So you don't need to install twice just once.
That's it.
I'll catch you in the next one
and let's get right in some code.